I'm sitting in a 1981 380 SEL my goal
today is to show you how to take out the
center wood console now you may be
asking yourself why would I need to take
out this piece of wood let me tell you
you can drop a ring in there your wife
make a piece saying hey where's that
ring or money you may need to change the
switches all of these things will
require you to remove the wood piece in
order to do that if you look closely
there are no apparent screws or clips
that hold this wood piece in place now
you don't see anything here in the back
and there's nothing here in the front if
you try to pull up on this wood piece
it's very easy to break it so you have
to be careful when removing this the
procedure has to start here at the
ashtray you first remove the center
section of the tray itself and then if
you look down into this cavity there are
two Phillips screws that will have to be
removed in order to pull out the ashtray
frame use the number two Phillips
screwdriver to remove the 2 screws
preferably use a magnetic tip keep from
dropping the screw once those screws are
removed pull straight back and slide the
ashtray frame out of the center console
turn it over you'll have a wiring plug
that you will have to remove as well as
the ashtray light bulb assembly the next
step is to remove the coin tray if
you're looking at this particular tray
you're going to say what in the world is
all this here well this is a European
model it has a very fancy onboard
heating system and you will not likely
see this on any other 126 chassis just
take a hold of the coin tray and tip it
up and pull it out in this case we'll
have a wiring plug to remove but most
models will only have a plastic tray
once the coin tray is out of the way
removing the wood is a simple matter of
just pushing it forward and lifting it
up this will release the clips and
you'll have to struggle with the wiring
to get it up and over the shift knob and
there it is tip the wood piece up on its
side and you can unplug the wiring to
all your switches disregard the maze on
this particular model it has aftermarket
electric windows installed most ear
plugs will be a standard plug that will
move similar to the one on the rear view
mirror switch that I'm removing now once
the wiring is free you can lift the wood
piece up and you're ready to work on it
I mentioned earlier about exercising
care when removing this piece if you
look here you can see some damage some
cracks in the plastic a broken clip here
it's obvious this person didn't know how
to remove the wood piece at some time
and it's not so distant past I would say
that over 80% of the wood pieces that I
removed from the 126th chassis are
broken so that gives you a pretty good
idea of the problems associated with
removal on the plus side we have a clip
here that still intact and this one's
still intact the two front clips are and
still intact even though this one is
missing that's not going to be a problem
if I take and use a little epoxy glue to
glue in this cracked piece it should be
just fine for reinstallation well there
you have it it wasn't as bad as you
thought it was going to be was it you
need to remove the switches simply
matter of pushing them out from the
backside so switch replacement can be
done now before reinstallation and if
you're really fortunate you're going to
be able to find that ring that your wife
dropped down in the hole down there and
then you're going to really be a hero if
you're watching this video and have an
81 to 85 126 sedan you might want to get
your hands on this piece of wood be sure
and check out my website and thanks for
watching
you